---
title: Configuration
description: Beginner friendly
icon: lucide:key-round

navTruncate: false

---

You can find a list of all PasarGuard's environment variables on this page. You can assign values to all these variables in the .env file.

::alert{icon="lucide:info"}
  If you have installed PasarGuard using the quick installation method, you can find the `.env` file at `/opt/pasarguard/.env`.
::

::field{name="UVICORN_HOST" type="string" defaultValue="0.0.0.0"}
The IP addresses the PasarGuard should listen on.

**Note:** `0.0.0.0` means all available addresses on the machine.
::

::field{name="UVICORN_PORT" type="number" defaultValue="8000"}
The port PasarGuard should listen on.
::

::field{name="UVICORN_UDS" type="string"}
The unix domain socket address which PasarGuard should listen on.

**Note:** If this variable is assigned a value, the `UVICORN_HOST` and `UVICORN_PORT` variables will be ignored.
::

::field{name="UVICORN_SSL_CERTFILE" type="string"}
The path to the SSL certificate file.

**Example:** `/path/to/example.com/fullchain.pem`
::

::field{name="UVICORN_SSL_KEYFILE" type="string"}
The path to the SSL key file.

**Example:** `/path/to/example.com/key.pem`
::

::field{name="XRAY_JSON" type="string" defaultValue="xray_config.json"}
The path to the xray configuration JSON file.
::

::field{name="XRAY_SUBSCRIPTION_URL_PREFIX" type="string"}
The prefix URL for subscription links.

::alert{type="warning"}
If this variable is not set, subscription links will not be sent correctly in the Telegram bot.
::
::

::field{name="XRAY_SUBSCRIPTION_PATH" type="string" defaultValue="sub"}
The path for subscription links.
::

::field{name="XRAY_EXECUTABLE_PATH" type="string" defaultValue="/usr/local/bin/xray"}
The path to the xray executable file.
::

::field{name="XRAY_ASSETS_PATH" type="string" defaultValue="/usr/local/share/xray"}
The path to the asset files directory for xray (`geoip.dat` and `geosite.dat` files).
::

::field{name="XRAY_EXCLUDE_INBOUND_TAGS" type="string"}
The inbound tags that should not be included in the proxy list and don't require any management.

**Example:** `"IBOUND_X INBOUND_Y INBOUND_Z"`
::

::field{name="XRAY_FALLBACKS_INBOUND_TAG" type="string"}
If you are using an inbound with multiple fallbacks, enter the tag here.
::

::field{name="TELEGRAM_API_TOKEN" type="string"}
The Telegram bot token (obtained from [@botfather](https://t.me/botfather))
::

::field{name="TELEGRAM_ADMIN_ID" type="string"}
The numeric ID of the admin in Telegram (obtained from [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot))
::

::field{name="TELEGRAM_LOGGER_CHANNEL_ID" type="string"}
The numeric ID of the Telegram bot's log channel.

If assigned a value, the logs related to the PasarGuard Telegram bot will be sent to this channel. The PasarGuard Telegram bot must be an admin in this channel.
::

::field{name="TELEGRAM_DEFAULT_VLESS_FLOW" type="string"}
The default flow for the Vless protocol in the Telegram bot.

**Example:** `"xtls-rprx-vision"`
::

::field{name="TELEGRAM_PROXY_URL" type="string"}
To run the Telegram bot with a proxy (in case Telegram servers are blocked on your server).

**Example:** `"socks5://127.0.0.1:1080"`
::

::field{name="DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL" type="string"}
The Discord webhook address.
::

::field{name="CUSTOM_TEMPLATES_DIRECTORY" type="string" defaultValue="app/templates"}
The directory for template files.
::

::field{name="CLASH_SUBSCRIPTION_TEMPLATE" type="string" defaultValue="clash/default.yml"}
The template used to generate Clash configurations.

**Example:** [default.yml](https://github.com/PasarGuard/panel/blob/master/app/templates/clash/default.yml)
::

::field{name="SUBSCRIPTION_PAGE_TEMPLATE" type="string" defaultValue="subscription/index.html"}
The template used for the subscription information page.

**Example:** [index.html](https://github.com/PasarGuard/panel/blob/master/app/templates/subscription/index.html)
::

::field{name="HOME_PAGE_TEMPLATE" type="string" defaultValue="home/index.html"}
The template used for the home page.

**Example:** [index.html](https://github.com/PasarGuard/panel/blob/master/app/templates/home/index.html)
::

::field{name="SUB_PROFILE_TITLE" type="string" defaultValue="Subscription"}
The title of the subscription in the client.

If the client supports this feature and the user does not select a title for the subscription, this value will be used as the subscription title.
::

::field{name="SUB_SUPPORT_URL" type="string"}
The support contact address in the subscription link.

**Example:** `"https://t.me/support"`
::

::field{name="SUB_UPDATE_INTERVAL" type="number" defaultValue="12"}
The time interval between automatic subscription updates (in hours).

If the client supports this feature, the subscription will be updated every 12 hours.
::

::field{name="SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URL" type="string" defaultValue="sqlite:///db.sqlite3"}
The database address in SQLAlchemy format.

**Guide:** See the available formats and drivers for the database address in the [SQLAlchemy documentation](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/engines.html#database-urls).
::

::field{name="WEBHOOK_ADDRESS" type="string" defaultValue="DEFAULT"}
::

::field{name="WEBHOOK_SECRET" type="string" defaultValue="DEFAULT"}
::

::field{name="SUDO_USERNAME" type="string"}
You can set the username of the super admin from an environment variable.

::alert{type="warning"}
It is strongly recommended to use the PasarGuard CLI to create an admin and not use this variable.
::
::

::field{name="SUDO_PASSWORD" type="string"}
You can set the password of the super admin from an environment variable.

::alert{type="warning"}
It is strongly recommended to use the PasarGuard CLI to create an admin and not use this variable.
::
::

::field{name="DOCS" type="boolean" defaultValue="false"}
Enable API documentation at `/docs` and `/redoc`.
::

::field{name="JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_MINUTES" type="number" defaultValue="1440"}
The expiration time of the access token in minutes.

**Note:** `0` means 'no expiration'.
::

::field{name="DEBUG" type="boolean" defaultValue="false"}
Enable development mode.
::

::field{name="VITE_BASE_API" type="string" defaultValue="/api/"}
The API route prefix for use in the dashboard (front-end)
::