content/docs/en/node/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Install PasarGuard Node using various methods
icon: Download
---

## System Requirements

### Minimum Requirements

- **RAM:** 1 GB
- **CPU:** 1 core
- **Storage:** 10 GB

### Recommended Requirements

- **RAM:** 2 GB
- **CPU:** 2 cores
- **Storage:** 20 GB

---

## Installation Methods

PasarGuard Node can be installed using multiple methods. Choose the one that best fits your needs.

## One-Click Installation (Recommended)

The easiest way to install PasarGuard Node is using our automated installation script:

```bash
sudo bash -c "$(curl -sL https://github.com/PasarGuard/scripts/raw/main/pg-node.sh)" @ install
```

This script will:
- Install all required dependencies
- Set up the PasarGuard Node
- Configure basic settings
- Start the service automatically

### Multiple Nodes on the Same Server

If you want to run more than one node on the same server, install each node with a unique name:

```bash
sudo bash -c "$(curl -sL https://github.com/PasarGuard/scripts/raw/main/pg-node.sh)" @ install --name node-eu-1
```

After installation, use the selected name as the management command prefix:

```bash
node-eu-1 update
node-eu-1 edit
node-eu-1 edit-env
```

You can also use other available subcommands with the same prefix (`node-eu-1 ...`) to manage that specific node instance.

---

## Docker Installation

### Prerequisites

Install Docker on your machine:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sh
```

### Using Docker Compose

1. Download the docker-compose file:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PasarGuard/node/refs/heads/main/docker-compose.yml
```

2. Create and configure your `.env` file (see [Configuration](/node/configuration))

3. Start the node:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### Docker Commands

**View logs:**
```bash
docker compose logs -f
```

**Stop the node:**
```bash
docker compose down
```

**Restart the node:**
```bash
docker compose restart
```

**Update to latest version:**
```bash
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

---

## Manual Installation

<Callout type="warn">
  Manual installation is not recommended for beginners. Use the one-click installation or Docker method instead.
</Callout>

### Prerequisites

1. **Install Go** (version 1.25 or higher)
   
   Download from [go.dev](https://go.dev/dl/)

2. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PasarGuard/node.git
cd node
```

### Build the Binary

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
make deps
```

2. Build the binary:

```bash
make
```

This will generate a binary file for your system architecture.

### Install Xray Core

Install the Xray core:

```bash
make install_xray
```

### Generate SSL Certificate

Generate a certificate based on your server's IP or domain:

```bash
# For domain-based certificate
make generate_server_cert CN=example.com SAN="DNS:example.com"

# For IP-based certificate
make generate_server_cert CN=example.com SAN="IP:YOUR_SERVER_IP"

# For both domain and IP
make generate_server_cert CN=example.com SAN="DNS:example.com,IP:YOUR_SERVER_IP"
```

### Configure and Run

1. Create and configure your `.env` file (see [Configuration](/node/configuration))

2. Run the binary:

```bash
./pasarguard-node
```

---

## Post-Installation

### Configure Firewall

Make sure to open the required ports in your firewall:

```bash
# For Ubuntu/Debian
sudo ufw allow YOUR_PORT/tcp

# For CentOS/RHEL
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=YOUR_PORT/tcp
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
```

### Set Up as System Service (Manual Installation)

Create a systemd service file:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/pg-node.service
```

Add the following content:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=PasarGuard Node
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=root
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/node
ExecStart=/path/to/node/pasarguard-node
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5s

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable and start the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable pg-node
sudo systemctl start pg-node
```

Check service status:

```bash
sudo systemctl status pg-node
```

Commit message:

docs: add important note on unique port requirements for node instances in English, Persian, Russian, and Chinese

content/docs/en/node/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Install PasarGuard Node using various methods
icon: Download
---

## System Requirements

### Minimum Requirements

- **RAM:** 1 GB
- **CPU:** 1 core
- **Storage:** 10 GB

### Recommended Requirements

- **RAM:** 2 GB
- **CPU:** 2 cores
- **Storage:** 20 GB

---

## Installation Methods

PasarGuard Node can be installed using multiple methods. Choose the one that best fits your needs.

## One-Click Installation (Recommended)

The easiest way to install PasarGuard Node is using our automated installation script:

```bash
sudo bash -c "$(curl -sL https://github.com/PasarGuard/scripts/raw/main/pg-node.sh)" @ install
```

This script will:
- Install all required dependencies
- Set up the PasarGuard Node
- Configure basic settings
- Start the service automatically

### Multiple Nodes on the Same Server

If you want to run more than one node on the same server, install each node with a unique name:

```bash
sudo bash -c "$(curl -sL https://github.com/PasarGuard/scripts/raw/main/pg-node.sh)" @ install --name node-eu-1
```

After installation, use the selected name as the management command prefix:

```bash
node-eu-1 update
node-eu-1 edit
node-eu-1 edit-env
```

You can also use other available subcommands with the same prefix (`node-eu-1 ...`) to manage that specific node instance.

Important: Do not reuse ports between nodes. Connection ports and the Xray core configuration linked to each node must be unique for every node instance.

---

## Docker Installation

### Prerequisites

Install Docker on your machine:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sh
```

### Using Docker Compose

1. Download the docker-compose file:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/PasarGuard/node/refs/heads/main/docker-compose.yml
```

2. Create and configure your `.env` file (see [Configuration](/node/configuration))

3. Start the node:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### Docker Commands

**View logs:**
```bash
docker compose logs -f
```

**Stop the node:**
```bash
docker compose down
```

**Restart the node:**
```bash
docker compose restart
```

**Update to latest version:**
```bash
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

---

## Manual Installation

<Callout type="warn">
  Manual installation is not recommended for beginners. Use the one-click installation or Docker method instead.
</Callout>

### Prerequisites

1. **Install Go** (version 1.25 or higher)
   
   Download from [go.dev](https://go.dev/dl/)

2. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PasarGuard/node.git
cd node
```

### Build the Binary

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
make deps
```

2. Build the binary:

```bash
make
```

This will generate a binary file for your system architecture.

### Install Xray Core

Install the Xray core:

```bash
make install_xray
```

### Generate SSL Certificate

Generate a certificate based on your server's IP or domain:

```bash
# For domain-based certificate
make generate_server_cert CN=example.com SAN="DNS:example.com"

# For IP-based certificate
make generate_server_cert CN=example.com SAN="IP:YOUR_SERVER_IP"

# For both domain and IP
make generate_server_cert CN=example.com SAN="DNS:example.com,IP:YOUR_SERVER_IP"
```

### Configure and Run

1. Create and configure your `.env` file (see [Configuration](/node/configuration))

2. Run the binary:

```bash
./pasarguard-node
```

---

## Post-Installation

### Configure Firewall

Make sure to open the required ports in your firewall:

```bash
# For Ubuntu/Debian
sudo ufw allow YOUR_PORT/tcp

# For CentOS/RHEL
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=YOUR_PORT/tcp
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
```

### Set Up as System Service (Manual Installation)

Create a systemd service file:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/pg-node.service
```

Add the following content:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=PasarGuard Node
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=root
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/node
ExecStart=/path/to/node/pasarguard-node
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5s

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable and start the service:

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable pg-node
sudo systemctl start pg-node
```

Check service status:

```bash
sudo systemctl status pg-node
```
